[FLINK-20491] Support Broadcast State in BATCH execution mode (#14312)
apache/flink: docs/dev/datastream_execution_mode.md

---
title: "Execution Mode (Batch/Streaming)"

> nav-id: datastream_execution_mode nav-parent_id: streaming nav-pos: 1

Reviewer: Are all the changes in the file required? Moreover I think this change to the header may break the page.

Author: I don't know how those snuck in... 🙈, reverting

See [FLIP-140](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/kDh4CQ) for background
information on this.

### Order of Processing

The order in which records are processed in operators or user-defined functions (UDFs) can differ between `BATCH` and `STREAMING` execution.

In `STREAMING` mode, user-defined functions should not make any assumptions about incoming records' order.
Data is processed as soon as it arrives.

In `BATCH` execution mode, there are some operations where Flink guarantees order. 
The ordering can be a side effect of the particular task scheduling,
network shuffle, and state backend (see above), or a conscious choice by the system.

There are three general types of input that we can differentiate:

- _broadcast input_: input from a broadcast stream (see also [Broadcast
  State]({% link dev/stream/state/broadcast_state.md %}))

> - _regular input_: input that isn't any of the above types of input

Author: regular input should be processed before keyed input, because the (sorted) keyed input is always last.

> - _regular input_: input that isn't any of the above types of input

Reviewer: I think I might've not been clear on this one. What I meant is that the line with `regular input` should be below the `keyed input`, because it refers to it. If I understood the sentence correctly it says: `input that isn't broadcast or keyed`, right?

> - _regular input_: input that isn't any of the above types of input

Author: Ah damn, you're right... 🙈 fixing it

See [FLIP-140](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/kDh4CQ) for background
information on this.

> ### Order of Processing
> 
> The order in which records are processed in operators or user defined functions
> (UDFs) can differ between `BATCH` and `STREAMING` execution.
> 
> In `STREAMING` mode, user defined functions should not make any assumptions
> about the order of incoming records. Records are processed immediately once
> they arrive in sources.
> 
> In `BATCH` execution mode, there are some operations where Flink guarantees
> order. The ordering can be a side effect of the special task scheduling,
> network shuffle, and state backend (see above) or it can be a conscious choice
> by the system.
> 
> There are three general types of input that we can differentiate:
> 
> - _keyed input_: input from a `KeyedStream`
> - _broadcast input_: input from a broadcast stream (see also [Broadcast
>   State]({% link dev/stream/state/broadcast_state.md %}))
> - _regular input_: input that isn't any of the above types of input
> 
> These are the ordering rules for the different input types
> 
> - keyed inputs are processed after all other inputs
> - broadcast inputs are processed before regular inputs
> 
> As mentioned above, the keyed input will be grouped and Flink will process all
> records of a keyed group consecutively before processing the next group.

Reviewer 2: @aljoscha What about this? 

```suggestion
### Order of Processing

The order in which records are processed in operators or user-defined functions (UDFs) can differ between `BATCH` and `STREAMING` execution.

In `STREAMING` mode, user-defined functions should not make any assumptions about incoming records' order.
Data is processed as soon as it arrives.

In `BATCH` execution mode, there are some operations where Flink guarantees order. 
The ordering can be a side effect of the particular task scheduling,
network shuffle, and state backend (see above), or a conscious choice by the system.

There are three general types of input that we can differentiate:

- _broadcast input_: input from a broadcast stream (see also [Broadcast
  State]({% link dev/stream/state/broadcast_state.md %}))
- _regular input_: input that isn't any of the above types of input
- _keyed input_: input from a `KeyedStream`

Functions, or Operators, that consume multiple input types will process them in the following order:

- broadcast inputs are processed first
- regular inputs are processed second
- keyed inputs are processed last

For functions that consume from multiple regular or broadcast inputs &mdash; such as a `CoProcessFunction` &mdash; Flink has the right to process data from any input of that type in any order. 
```

Author: Perfect, thanks! I knew I was asking the right person.
